1. When you create a MetaMask account, or add a new account to your wallet, you're given a unique public address. 

2. On Ethereum and other networks compatible with the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), public addresses all share the same format: they begin with 0x, 
   and are followed by a 40 alphanumeric characters (numerals and letters), adding up to 42 characters in total. They're also not case sensitive.
  
This address is a number, even though it also includes alphabetical characters. This is because the hexadecimal (base 16) system used to generate the address doesn't just use numerals, like our ten-digit decimal system. Instead, the hexadecimal system uses the numerals 0-9 and the letters A-F. This means it has 16 characters at its disposal, hence the name base 16. In computer science and many programming languages, the 0x prefix is used at the start of all hex numbers, as they are known, to differentiate them from decimal values.

EVM-compatible networks all share the Ethereum address format. Due to these shared characteristics, you can use MetaMask to interact with any other EVM-compatible network using the same address, networks such as:

Polygon
BSC (BNB Chain)
Fantom
Avalanche (C-Chain). 

Don't use MetaMask with any addresses that don't use the Ethereum format, either when sending or receiving. This is in addition to the fact you should never send tokens straight from one network to another without bridging.

EVM-compatible networks with different formats. Just because a network is EVM-compatible does not necessarily mean it uses an 0x address in all circumstances. The Harmony network, for example, is fully EVM-compatible, but allows users to switch between an 0x and one1 version of their address (although the number which follows this prefix is the same). Others, like Avalanche, have multiple chains with varying levels of EVM support (you should only interact with Avalanche C-Chain on MetaMask). 

Orginal link
https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4702972178459-The-Ethereum-address-format-and-why-it-matters-when-using-MetaMask



